enphase envoy docs quality improvement (#36128)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/enphase_envoy.markdown

ha_integration_type: integration
---

The **Enphase Envoy** {% term integration %} is used to integrate with the [Enphase IQ Gateway](https://enphase.com/en-us/products-and-services/envoy-and-combiner), a communication device for [Enphase](https://enphase.com/homeowners) solar inverters and batteries. In this documentation, as well as in integration entity names, the Enphase IQ Gateway is commonly referred to as `Envoy`, a name from the conception times of this integration and retained for its compact format.

## Supported devices

This integration works with:

> - Older and newer <abbr title="IQ Gateway">Envoy</abbr> models that only have production metrics (i.e. Envoy-R (LCD), Envoy-S (not metered))
> - Newer <abbr title="IQ Gateway">Envoy</abbr> models that offer both production and consumption metrics (i.e. Envoy-S Metered equipped with <abbr title="current transformers">CT</abbr>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Older and newer <abbr title="IQ Gateway">Envoy</abbr> models that only have production metrics (such as Envoy-R (LCD), Envoy-S (not metered))
- Newer <abbr title="IQ Gateway">Envoy</abbr> models that offer both production and consumption metrics (such as Envoy-S Metered equipped with <abbr title="current transformers">CT</abbr>).
```

[^5]: Only applies when using  Envoy S Metered / IQ Gateway Metered / IQ Combiner with installed and configured storage / battery <abbr title="current transformers">CT</abbr>.

## Actions

Available actions are: `switch.turn_on`, `switch.turn_off`, `switch.toggle`, [`number.set_value`](#action-numberset_value), [`select.select`](#action-selectselect)

### Action `switch.turn_on`/`switch.turn_off`/`switch.toggle`

These actions turn on, off or toggle

- the Enpower device switches `grid_enabled`, `charge_from_grid`
- the [Enpower load shedding relays](#enpower-load-shedding-relays) switch.

| Data attribute | Optional | Description |
| - | - | - |

> | `entity_id` | no | Name(s) of entities, e.g., `switch.enpower_12345678901001_grid_enabled`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `entity_id` | no | Name(s) of entities. For example, `switch.enpower_12345678901001_grid_enabled`. |
```

Example:

```yaml
action: switch.toggle
target:
  entity_id:
    - switch.enpower_12345678901001_grid_enabled
data: {}

action: switch.turn_on
data: {}
target:
  entity_id:
    - switch.no2
    - switch.nc2
```

### Action `number.set_value`

This action changes the setting for the Enpower `Reserve battery level`.

| Data attribute | Optional | Description |
| - | - | - |
| `entity_id` | no | Name(s) of entities, e.g., `number.enpower_12345678901001_reserve_battery_level`. |

> | `value` | no | The target Value between 0 and 100 to set Enpower reserve battery level to. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `value` | no | The target value between 0 and 100 to set Enpower reserve battery level to. |
```

Example:

```yaml
action: number.set_value
target:
  entity_id: number.enpower_12345678901001_reserve_battery_level
data:
  value: "25"
```

### Action `select.select`

This action changes the:

- Relays relay_mode, grid_action, micro_grid_action or generator_action
- Battery storage mode

| Data attribute | Optional | Description |
| - | - | - |

> | `entity_id` | no | Name(s) of entities, e.g., `select.nc2_generator_action`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `entity_id` | no | Name(s) of entities. For example, `select.nc2_generator_action`. |
```

| `option` | no | For relay modes: `powered`, `not_powered`, `schedule`, `none`. <br> For storage modes: `backup`, `self_consumption`, `savings` |

Example:

```yaml
action: select.select_option
target:
  entity_id:
    - select.nc2_generator_action
data:
  option: not_powered

action: select.select_option
target:
  entity_id:
    - select.enpower_12345678901001_storage_mode
data:
  option: backup
```

{% note %}
Technically `select.first`, `select.last`, `select.previous`, `select.next` are available as well, but as there's no logical sequence in the values to select, their use is not advocated.
{% endnote %}

## Know issues and limitations

- [Envoy firmware](https://enphase.com/installers/resources/documentation/communication?&f[0]=document%3A217) versions come with changing behavior, features and issues. Firmware is pushed to the Envoy by Enphase, while 'not always communicated in detail upfront'. This may result in sudden changes in the Envoy behavior and is always accompanied by an outage while Envoy is being updated.

> - As of Envoy firmware  8.2.4225 the Envoy does no longer support setting battery modes, Enable/Disable charge from grid or changing reserve battery level through the local REST API used by HA. Until a resolution is found, you will need to use the Enphase APP to control these.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As of Envoy firmware  8.2.4225, the Envoy no longer supports setting battery modes, enabling/disabling charging from the grid, or changing reserve battery level through the local REST API used by HA. Until a resolution is found, you will need to use the Enphase APP to control these.
```

## Troubleshooting

> - The Envoy should not be both on your local LAN and local Wifi at the same time. This may cause auto discovery to switch back and forth between the interfaces resulting in brief outages every 30 minutes. If you experience these frequent brief outages, make sure only 1 interface is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Envoy should not be both on your local LAN and local Wi-Fi at the same time. This may cause auto-discovery to switch back and forth between the interfaces resulting in brief outages every 30 minutes. If you experience these frequent brief outages, make sure only 1 interface is used.
```

#### Debug log

When experiencing issues during the use of the integration, enable the debug log for the <abbr title="IQ Gateway">Envoy</abbr>. Then restart the integration. This will add details on the data collection to the Home Assistant log file. Leave the debug log enabled long enough to capture the occurrence of the issue. If the issue is intermittent, this may take a while and it may grow the log file quite a bit.

If you're expecting features to show but they are not shown, make sure to reload the integration while debug logging is enabled.
When this integration is loaded, it will scan the <abbr title="IQ Gateway">Envoy</abbr> for available features and configure these as needed. Following this initial scan, only data for the found features is collected.  Performing a reload with debug enabled results in the debug log containing the initial full scan to assist with analyzing any missing features. Some features are disabled by default, and you need to enable them if you want them to show. Verify this before starting a debug session.

> Once the issue occurred, stop the debug logging again (_download of debug log file will start automatically_). When reporting the issue include the debug log file as well as a [{% term diagnostics %}](#diagnostics) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the issue occurred, stop the debug logging again (_download of debug log file will start automatically_). When reporting the issue, include the debug log file as well as a [{% term diagnostics %}](#diagnostics) file.
```
